This is a report of the branch visit to the Central America branch and Cuba in April.
My wife Jean and I had the privilege to visit the Bethel in Mexico City and then after that the Bethel in Havana.
In Haggai 2 of 7 the words of Jehovah state and I will shake all the nations and the precious things of all the nations will come in and I will fill this house with glory says Jehovah of armies.
In this part of the world hundreds of thousands of people are flocking to Jehovah and currently there are over 1 million preachers who regularly bring glory to his house.
These two branches are responsible to care for the spiritual needs of people in Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama and Mexico and Cuba.
In all these places there are many people who are really precious to Jehovah. What makes them precious? They are fully devoted to Jehovah and they display qualities that he appreciates, qualities that mean a lot to him.
Let us introduce you to some of them. Each experience is summarized by one of the qualities precious to Jehovah. Please note them as we briefly relate their stories.
The first experience is about the brothers and sisters in the Rio Coco mosquito congregation in Assam. The publishers in that village wanted to go up the river to preach to people in that very remote part of Nicaragua but they did not have the money to buy a boat.
They found a big tree that had fallen cut it up, hollowed it out and made a boat out of it.
It took 50 of them just to move this boat into the water. Then they went up the river into those remote villages to preach to the people.
Guess what they used? Electronic tablets. Wherever they went showed the people the new video publications in the mosquito language using their tablets. They gave a tremendous witness.
So even though they used ancient technology to travel to these remote places, they used the latest technology to preach once they got there.
These brothers and sisters are very creative and they make the most of their resources to accomplish what needs to be done.
The next story is a story of determination. In Mexico there is a young girl, eight years old, named Zuri Sadai Moreno Umaran.
She was diagnosed with leukemia and went through a torturous path of going to many different doctors and hospitals where people try to force blood on her.
Of course the hospital liaison committee was working hard to help.
Zuri was flown all over the country looking for a doctor to treat her and eventually she was able to get the right treatment.
She made a strong stand for Jehovah defending her faith. She was going to obey Jehovah no matter what.
While all of this was happening she decided to get baptized. She could not do all of this without her parents and family.
Her face gleams with determination doesn't it? A circuit overseer in El Salvador told this experience.
One time after I had finished accompanying publishers on Bible studies we said goodbye and I went down another street.
A group of gang members came out of a house. I immediately went into the nearest house to avoid a confrontation.
I was so glad that the householder kindly told me to come inside. I began to preach to her. The lady patiently listened to me.
About an hour later they either got bored or tired and left so I took advantage of the opportunity and left right away.
The following experience illustrates how the fear of God can motivate us to do the right thing.
In a small village in Mexico about 2,000 people got together and expelled the witnesses from their village.
They were forced out of their homes and were not allowed to bring their possessions.
Among them were grandparents, parents, little children, even babies. They were forced into cars and trucks and driven out of the village and dropped in the mountains.
That night was a cold night. They were shivering. They had no food but they trusted in Jehovah.
I have felt fear but it's a fear of not doing Jehovah's will because many lives would be lost. Many people would remain in spiritual darkness. They would not come to know Jehovah.
So the next day, he and his family went back to the village that had been thrown out of and spoke to the leading men there.
These men agreed that they could come back.
The brothers all came home and now the congregation is flourishing in this village and the brothers freely preach from door to door.
Many young people have left behind opportunities for higher education. They've stepped out of the boat and walked on water.
They left behind so-called security and safety and they put their lives in Jehovah's hands. Even though they've chosen to give up some comforts of life to serve and remote areas, they are happy and live fulfilling lives.
Having our minds focused on the ministry has helped us as a young couple. It's helped us not to set materialistic goals, which would enslave us to work, to financial goals, but rather to think about the ministry.
I learned that if you put all your energies into this world, the world will only use them to its convenience.
But if you use it for Jehovah, he will help you feel full and he will give meaning to your life.
Next we went to Cuba. Cuba is a beautiful place. Although at this time Cuba might not be known for its physical riches, it is full of the most amazing spiritual riches.
But Jehovah calls the precious things of the nations. Most of our brothers do not have much in a material way, but they are happy as they work hard to give Jehovah their very best.
Spiritually they are rich. Despite many challenges, they have around 96,000 publishers and many more are coming into the truth.
While they cannot have kingdom halls, they do have meeting places. The following pictures show the outside of a meeting place and then a view of the inside.
It might not be impressive from the physical perspective, but all of them are precious to Jehovah.
The amazing thing is that even though these brothers do not have much material, they are able to offer part of their property as a meeting place.
And the Cuban law, you inherit property from your parents and so on. Sometimes it's just a hallway, a room or an attachment at the back of the house.
50 or 60 publishers can fit into these small places, but the point is that they have meeting places and they are able to have all the meetings.
A remarkable feature of Cuba is that vintage cars are used as taxis and family cars.
But the brothers are up to date with JW broadcasting and convention videos. For example, at the weekly Christian life and ministry meetings, the videos are used as normal.
They have it all. How do they do that without much internet access?
This is how the few brothers who do have some internet access make copies of the programs. Then they copy them from phone to phone to phone.
Everybody seems to have a cell phone. Maybe some of the phones don't have video, but at least they have sound.
When they go to the meeting, they play the program on a TV screen and everyone gets the full benefit of the program.
Among the Jehovah's precious people in Cuba are six brothers and sisters who are both deaf and blind.
Two deaf and blind sisters came to Bethel for an interview. It was amazing to watch when they met for the first time.
The brothers translate the study edition of the Watchtower into Cuban Sign Language.
One local census taken by our brothers suggests that about one in five deaf people that we have encountered is studying the Bible with Jehovah's Witnesses.
This couple who assist with translation are both deaf. The precious things of Central America and Cuba are indeed praising Jehovah.
They are fully devoted to serve Jehovah and they always seem to be smiling. At meetings and at larger gatherings, it is evident that they know who they are and that they represent Jehovah wordily.
These precious ones truly appreciate all the provisions from Jehovah's temple arrangement.
And they are helping currently, they are helping about one and a half million Bible students to bring praise and glory to Jehovah's name.
And the brothers at these two branches asked us to bring to you their love and deep affection.